# Glossary

- **Agile** - Any way of working that adheres to the tenets of the Agile Manifesto. Agile web development is based on iterative development, allowing for just-in-time-planning at the beginning of each sprint, and the highest value items being worked on first. The teams are self organizing and cross functional. The iterative approach minimizes risk by having something to show to stakeholders after each sprint and allowing the team to adapt to stakeholder requests to change or add requirements.
- **Agile Process** - Since Agile is "people and interactions over processes and tools" we prefer to talk about our Agile Practices. To us, Process feels more static, and loses the important "inspect and adapt" aspect of how we work. However, we acknowledge that the term Agile Process is used within the Agile community in a way that it is interchangeable with Agile Practice.
- **Agile Methodology** - See "Agile Process". Like Process, Methodology feels static, and loses the important "inspect and adapt" aspect of how we work. The term is used within the Agile community, though, in a way that is interchangeable with Agile Process and Agile Practices.
- **Agile Practices** - Represents our commitment to "people and interactions over processes and tools" by using the Agile tenets and placing a high value on the "inspect and adapt" aspect of how we work.
- **Artifacts** - Tangible items developed as part of an Agile/Scrum practice: Burndown Chart, Product Backlog, Sprint Backlog.
- **Best Practices** - Taking what we've learned to be successful and continuing to apply and refine it for optimal results. This could apply to how we communicate, how we write QA tests, how we approach problems, how we code, among other things. It also applies to what we do: daily scrum calls, regression testing, using email lists, among other things. A practice is always subject to inspection and adaptation. Ideally, best practices are documented - in some place that can be easily updated when they change - so that they can be easily pointed to, learned from and reviewed. Note that best practices are not "rules" but rather "guidelines" that have been refined and found to work in many cases.
- **Deliverable** - a tangible output, document or piece of work.
- **Iteration** - A cycle of time in which some portion of a project's sum deliverables are completed, often measured in accordance with the Sprint timeline. Iterative release is a technique used to maximize efficiency and keep work focused on the project's objectives.
- **Kanban** - An Agile framework in which the Product Owner can slate tickets throughout the cycle, negotiating with the project team on the size of tickets, since the number of tickets in a Kanban cycle is fixed. The team must collectively limit the amount of work in progress, eliminating bottlenecks, and track the timing of tickets' progress.
- **Lean** - The core idea is to maximize customer value while minimizing waste (including unnecessary practices, documentation etc.) to deliver quickly. The idea comes from Lean Manufacturing and has manifested into Lean software development and Lean business practices (The Lean Startup book).
- **Minimum Viable Product (MVP)** - An MVP is a learning tool (NOT beta product) to determine if a business idea is actually worth pursuing. It is an experiment, a feature or a collection of "just enough" features to be deployed and assessed, but no more. An MVP's value is in the feedback that can be gathered to understand what the audience actually needs. It's important to note that the MVP often does not take the form of built software, but rather can be a conceptual model intended to facilitate discussion. Reading Materials: The disposable MVP. Ignite Talk by Lean Start Up Machine
- **Primary Constraint** - The parameter that the Product Owner has determined is most important and least mutable: Budget, Scope, or Timeline. Once it is defined, the project will be managed to this primary constraint, which could impact the other two parameters.
- **Product Backlog** - The known list of the user stories, outcomes, requirements, tasks, bug fixes that remains to be complete for the project. The Product Owner prioritizes the backlog so that the team always works on the most valuable features first. It is ever-changing and growing as business needs change and as new technology becomes available.
- **Product Owner (PO)** - The Product Owner represents the voice of the stakeholder and holds the vision of the outcomes on their behalf. This person ensures that the Scrum Team works on the features and functions that bring the most value to the organization. The Product Owner owns the Product Backlog and is the subject-matter expert, with comprehensive knowledge about the business value that each part of the product will create for the organization.
- **Prototype** - A model for the testing of a concept and clarification of objectives, released for review early in the development process. There are several variants of prototyping, which are not necessarily mutually exclusive with most Drupal projects, as some components could be featurized and re-used (evolutionary) and others might be throwaway.
- Rapid/Throwaway Prototype: creating a working model of various parts of the system at a very early stage, after a relatively short investigation. The method used in building it is usually quite informal, the most important factor being the speed with which the model is provided. The model then becomes the starting point from which users can re-examine their expectations and clarify their requirements. When this has been achieved, the prototype model is "thrown away". and the system is formally developed based on the identified requirements.
- Evolutionary Prototype: The main goal when building an Evolutionary Prototype is to build a very robust prototype in a structured manner and constantly refine it. The reason for this is that the Evolutionary prototype, when built, forms the heart of the new system, and the improvements and further requirements will be built.
- Parallel Prototyping: A product is built as separate prototypes. At the end the separate prototypes are merged in an overall design.
- **Quality** - Uber-term to describe our commitment to quality in all aspects of our work, from the high standard of the services we provide, the code we write, and the Quality Assurance process, through the communications we have with each other as a team, our interactions with clients and outside vendors and the depth of the relationships we build.
- **Quality Assurance** - The testing of the work completed against the task requirements to ensure that the goals and expectations of the work delivered meets what was agreed upon, and also to ensure that the system as a whole continues to be working as expected. Testing could include manual and automated testing, utilizing QA engineers, QA software tools and end users.
- **Regression Testing** - Testing that seeks to uncover new bugs or issues in existing areas of the site that may have occurred after enhancements, improvements, configuration changes or other work has been completed. The purpose of regression testing is to ensure that new problems have not arisen as the result of all of the above. Specific Regression Tests are written as part of a test plan, and are tested before and after each release.
- **Risk** - A future uncertain event with a probability of occurrence and a potential for loss that could negatively impact the project, timeline, budget, work, team, and/or company.
- **Risk Management** - The process of identifying risk, defining a response to it, and tracking it until closure. Risks can be on a project level (estimates, time frame, budget, value, quality, impact) or on an operation level (reputation, balance sheet, retention).
- **Roman Vote** - All team members vote thumbs up (agree), thumbs down (disagree), or thumbs neutral to assess the will of the group and decide something. See synonym: Dot Voting.
- **Scrum** - An iterative project framework within Agile. The framework defines roles (ScrumMaster, Product Owner and Scrum Team) and artifacts (Product Backlog, Sprint Backlog, Burndown chart) and timeboxed rituals (daily stand up, sprint planning meeting, sprint review meeting, Sprint). CivicActions' practices are based on Scrum.
- **ScrumMaster** - Certified ScrumMasters (CSMs) help project teams properly use Scrum, increasing the likelihood of the project's overall success. CSMs understand Scrum values, practices, and applications and provide a level of knowledge and expertise above and beyond that of typical project managers. CSMs act as "servant leaders," helping the rest of the Scrum team work together and learn the Scrum framework. CSMs also protect the team from both internal and external distractions.
- **User Acceptance Testing** - The process by which a representative of the client team follows an explicit set of steps to test the requirements of the ticket in order to mark it "Done".
- **User Epic** - a group of related user stories
- **User Story** - one or two sentences in everyday language that captures the who, what and why of a story: Independent, Negotiable, Valuable, Estimable, Small, Testable (INVEST) requirement: As a <role>, I want to <goal>, so that <benefit>.
- **Velocity** - describes how much work a scrum team can accomplish in a sprint. The longer a team works together, the more efficient they become. The scrum team can look at past sprints to gauge how much work is likely to be accomplished in a sprint.
- **Work in Progress (WIP)** - a partially finished task or ticket. Limiting WIP items increases the velocity that an item passes through a system.

### Words needing definitions

- **Validated Learning** -
- **Hypothesis** -
- **Success Metric** - (or some other way of talking about metrics... such as the Lean distinction between vanity and actionable metrics)
- **Maintenance Sprint** -
- **Tech Lead** -
- **User Experience** -
- **Information Architecture** -
- **Responsive Design** -
- **Outcomes** -
- **SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle)** - (utilizing best practices, source code control, dev-qa-live and ongoing maintenance processes)
- **POC - Proof of Concept**
- **Commission** - what is a commission in NTC parlance? how is it different than / similar to a "project" or department?
- **Department** - what is a department in NTC parlance? how is it different than / similar to a commission?
- **Subcommittee** - what is a subcommittee in NTC parlance? how does it relate to commissions, depts, "projects", or the steering committee?
